There is going to be a little
bit of a choice time here.
But if you don't wanna make a choice,
you can actually just,
I would say fork the repo
that we're using,
or grab any repo you want that has tests,
cuz it really doesn't matter.
You can even create React app and
just put a test in.
This part doesn't matter, but what we're
gonna do is look, again, as our segue,
we talked a little bit about unit testing.
We could go into component testing,
we could go into playwright testing, but
as a palette cleanser,
to talk about something is not testing.
We're going to look at kind of setting up
our first GitHub Action, right?
GitHub Action is basically a CI/CD
process that is built into GitHub.
If you've ever used anything
like Travis CI or CircleCI, or
as I joked earlier, if you've ever
had the pleasure of using Jenkins,
that's a joke,
nobody's ever said that it meant it.
You've used some amount of CI/CD before,
basically, it runs your processes for
you and usually breaks your build if
something fails, usually your tests.
If it's Jenkins, it could be any
number of reasons why Jenkins failed.
Some of those might have to do
with the thing you need to change.
Some of it could just be like the way that
the moon was in relationship to Saturn.
But GitHub Actions, all of this
applies to whatever you use, right?
GitHub Actions is just being
the lowest common denominator,
which is, we're gonna push this to GitHub,
there is GitHub Actions.
You might choose to use GitHub Actions and
whatever CI/CD process use
mostly because GitHub Actions,
this is gonna be a shocker to all of you,
integrates really nicely with GitHub,
right?
And so the very first thing we're gonna do
is we're gonna have it run our unit tests.
And that is great, and
that is something that almost every
other CI tool on the planet can do.
I mean, any CI tool can do any of this
stuff, but the other nice part about
GitHub Actions is you can script lots
of things in your application, right?
So for instance, anything that GitHub
has an API for, you can script.
And it's super easy cuz a lot of the
infrastructures there, they have an API,
you could have always done it.
But you can do something where it's like,
okay,
if you do work on an open source codebase
and is a first-time contributor,
you would have something like
automatically greet some,
silly but doable, right?
More practically, some things we use
it for is we have a public repo,
which is our open source project,
we have a private repo,
which is just the SaaS
implementation of that.
And our SaaS app is a superset
of our open source app,
which basically we use
source package thing.
And we bundle the open source as a package
that then the cloud app consumes,
which the ability to do
user management and stuff.
The nice part is when we bumped
the npm version in a PR,
that will automatically trigger
something that automatically
bumps the npm version of
that inner cloud process.
So the act of cutting open source release
automatically updates it to cloud rather
than prior.
Cool, you merged a domain, all right,
neat, now you do npm publish.
Okay, cool, now it's on npm, now go into
the other one and update the dependency,
open up a PR on that.
Cool, get a code review, merge it in.
And nobody got time for that, right?
And so workflows can signal other
workflows and all those things,
and you can kinda build these
automated systems, other things.
One of the things I plan on using for
in the next print or two,
which is we merged our server, our web
server, repo into our UI repo, right?
Because we bundle it in that server, we
release it, it's weird open source stuff.
But like we merged them together,
now that said, I don't write go by choice.
And what's nice is now I can look at
the file path that those files touch and
automatically slap
the right label on it so
that somebody who works on the server
can see the pull requests that are for
them and the frontend ones
can see the pull request.
There's lots of GitHubby things above and
beyond your tests,
that's the most obvious things,
that's what we're gonna do first.
And we'll do stuff like
generating coverage reports, and
eventually saving playwright videos and
all that kind of crazy stuff.
But chess is a really great first thing to
do, but you can listen to issue creation,
pull requests, or
anything like that happens in GitHub.
We'll look at the list in a second.
You can script and
automate a whole bunch of that stuff.
And this is kinda I was talking about
before we have a hour-long release meeting
that every time I seek to shave five
minutes off of it every month, right?
Until we can get it down to
a normal 15-minute stand up,
where we happen to cut a release,
and just finding those things and
being able to script
a lot of your process.
Again, the automation, people are more
willing to not do anything or convince
somebody cut them some slack than they
are to turn off the build process, right?
And I mean,
we all got mad at the build process but
not to the point where it
causes team tension, right?
At least we're all mad at
the build process, right?
And so having a lot of these things built
in becomes super powerful in that sense.
So with that, the very first thing we're
gonna do is we're gonna go ahead and
we're going to build it.
We're gonna create a workflow that
basically runs our test suite.
Like I said, any repo that you have
will work in this case, but if you don't
have one, there are tests in that repo
that I've been using the whole time.
So that's the thing that you could do.
Let's go ahead and
let's see what that looks like.
All right, so right now,
this is just a normal repo,
it has no idea that
a GitHub workflow exists.
All that you truly need to make
something to support GitHub workflows is
you can have a dot GitHub directory
that has a workflows folder in it.
That's it, that exists, ideally,
there should be a file in there, and
empty folders in Git don't do anything.
But with that, you could theoretically
begin to publish your first workflow.
And I'm gonna kind of just go into,
if I go into the README,
and we can kind of jump
into one of the sections.
Getting started with GitHub Actions,
let's look at what a first
workflow might look like.
This is possibly, I'm not gonna say
the simplest workflow cuz I could have one
just echo or something and
that would technically work.
But this is the smallest useful
workflow that you might see.
And so this would be in that
dot GitHub directory in
a workflows' folder that we'll make
in a second, don't worry about that.
Let's just kinda talk about
the component pieces in here,
and then we will go ahead and we will put
it in our repo and watch it do its thing.
So the name,
that's pretty straightforward.
It's what name do you want to see?
And so I might even do Run Unit Tests or
something like that.
But anyway, the more important part that
comes next is what triggers this workflow?
Like I said before,
you could do it on basically anything,
an issue being created
a pull request open.
There is a long list that I
have linked to here as well.
You actually are in the repo,
these are markdowns renders HTML.
Don't worry, and you can just click on it,
and we'll take a look at in a second.
There is a long list of things, and for
those things, there are even nuances to
where you can only when an issue is close,
or only the PR is a draft.
There's all sorts of little
things you can do here.
But for our very simple first workflow,
we've got on, which is what event
are we listening for, and we are going to
listen to one of two different events.
A push to a particular branch, and you can
guess which branch it is by squinting and
looking at it, or a pull request
targeting a particular branch, right?
You will notice that the branch
in question here is main, right?
Is to say that, hey,
whenever someone pushes to main, right,
which is usually if you've
turned on any kind of branch
protections means that they've
merged the PR into main.
Let's run everything one more time,
run the tests, why not?
Also, whenever somebody opens a pull
request against main, the nuance here is
that event also triggers when they
push to that pull request, right?
So all PRs and any comments to
those PRs as well as pushes
into main itself will
trigger this workflow.
For testing notes, you can do pattern
matching here, so it could be like,
if you had a feature branch,
right, which is feature dash,
it could be anything to a feature branch,
right?
In fact, I say this particularly
cuz I recently got bit by this one,
which is in December,
we decided not to release anything
because we didn't wanna work for
the second half of the month.
So we made a code freeze branch,
I think I called it Long December
after the Counting Crows' song,
I don't even like the Counting Crows.
I don't know if that's why I don't
like the Counting Crows upset or
even Counting Crows' reference upset.
I don't dislike them,
I just don't like them,
this is absence of a failure
as a passing test, right?
And so this was set to main, which meant
that all of the PRs we opened against
the code freeze branch didn't have our
CI/CD process run against it, right?
Which was a lot of fun when it was time to
then merge that branch into main, right?
So you could theoretically comma separate,
you can do pattern matching,
which is feature dash, like a wildcard.
I say this cuz I didn't do that, and
I suffered the consequences, right?
I will leave as an exercise to the viewer
slash reader how much of the content of
this workshop is things that have
bitten me in the last 18 months, right?
And so here we got any of those
against me, and then we have jobs.
Jobs are things that should be done.
And this is just the arbitrary name of it,
right?
build-and-test, right now, it just tests.
But you can clearly see
I took a bigger one and
whittled it down to the smaller version.
And then for those jobs,
jobs have a few things.
There are other things a job can have, but
most importantly,
what kind of OS is it running on?
And then what are the steps
in that workflow?
On GitHub Actions,
depending on how fast you would
like things to be, you can run on,
just give me an Ubuntu server you
have laying around, I'll take it.
However, let's say hypothetically
we're building electron app, right?
Well, you got to build electron app
on whatever OS you wanna run that
electron on.
So you can signify macOS,
you can signify Windows.
That said, as most of you all know,
Mac minis are more expensive
than a Linux box, right?
And that translates down to how
many Linux, generally speaking,
choosing Ubuntu is going to have
the best network throughput,
it's what the Internet is built on, right?
You wanna get fancy, and if you need
to compile some Windows things or
you need to use Xcode,
then you got to use that OS, right?
But if you don't really care, if you're
just trying to take some text JavaScript
and make it some smaller text JavaScript,
anything will work, so
we'll use a bunch of letters.
There are some other options here,
you could have jobs that rely on
the completion of another job,
but we'll get to that later.
Then the most important
part are the steps.
And really, this actually really well
suits all the basic things you can do,
which is you can either run
what we'll call an action.
You can, I say, use an action
because the words mean things.
You can use an action,
which is basically just a different YAML
file with different commands in it,
or you can run a command.
The one nuance here is that, yes, you
look like these, look like Bash commands.
Fun fact, they are.
The one nice part is your workflow actions
are either YAML like this, so even when we
break stuff down to its own action later
on this course, we'll go do it in YAML.
The nice part is the other way that
you can write an action other than
just shell scripts and run is JavaScript.
So the nice part about being a JavaScript
engineer in 2020, whatever year it is,
and so those are kind of the pieces.
So we stepped through the steps,
and we can kinda see each piece.
So this is a prebuilt action
that we say uses, right?
And so this is already built, and
we're just kind of referencing it,
which is anything with action
slash is usually built by GitHub,
right, cuz that is org/repo
is really what that is.
The same way you might have GitHub.org,
or your username slash your repo name.
Org/repo, they own actions, check out.
Would anyone like to venture a wild
guess what action/checkout does?
>> Checks out the Git repo.
>> Checks out the Git repo, right,
which is also known as cloning down, which
basically means puts that code base on to
this Ubuntu machine that we're running.
So generally speaking, pretty common.
Now, do you need that one if you're
doing like, it's an issue and
if they didn't put what
environment I wanna auto-comment,
be like can you add more detail or
something like that, right?
Then you don't need to check out the repo
for that, you can just use the metadata,
who the author was, or what the content
of the issue was, so on and so forth.
[COUGH] All right, here's a hard
post lunch question for y'all.
Set up node.
Don't all, not everyone at the same time
>> Does it install node?
>> It does, it does, it does.
Of course, it does the actions,
and you could literally go to
github.com/actions/checkout and
you can see that code.
As of this moment,
I think this is still true, and hopefully,
if you're watching this later,
may or may not be true.
Third party actions or
anything you're using from
the marketplace has to be a public repo.
You can write your own actions and
put them in a folder,
but in terms of sharing and stuff like
that, so all of these are, literally,
when I say you can just look up the code,
you literally can.
And then the other thing that we can do
in a GitHub Actions is run shell scripts,
or like I said before, JavaScripts.
So we'll start at the bottom, npm test,
we know that one,
we've seen that one before.
And so we have that one in place,
and the new one was npm ci.
Does anyone know what npm ci does?
I know that I'm supposed to use it,
I don't really know what it does.
>> I cheated and read ahead in your notes.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So read my notes back to me.
>> It's a variation on npm install
with a few different caveats.
>> Yeah.
>> It insists on having a package
lock JSON.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> It'll error out instead of
updating package lock JSON,
if something doesn't match,
that seems incredibly useful.
>> Yeah.
>> It deletes node modules of present,
it doesn't write to package JSON, and
it'll uninstall all dependencies.
>> Yeah, so it'll basically do that thing
what we all do, even if it doesn't work,
when our slings aren't working,
we blow away node modules and
reinstall everything, it'll do that.
And it won't update it based on letting
the little patch version slip and
stuff along those lines.
So it is basically a version
of the npm install, but for
CIC processes, and then npm test.
And we know that if your tests fail, we
may not know cuz we didn't talk about it.
But we have probably grokked that you get
an error code that is not successful,
right?
And so very much like our tests, if we
exit with a zero, everything is good,
if you exit with any other number,
everything is bad, right?
And so the absence of blowing up is
a sign that everything is great and
that that step passes, right?
And honestly, we'll expand on this, we'll
add stuff to it over our time together.
But this is basically, if you just wanted
to run your unit tests, you basically
make a dot GitHub folder, I'm saying this
on purpose, with a workflows directory.
And you just name something dot
YAML with this code in it, and
you now have your unit test
running on every PR to main.
Let's do it.